---
layout: post
title: 3 Ways to Make Your Data Work Visible
tags: [Freelance]
comments: true
---
Here are some ideas for making your data work visible/showing the importance of data work. My go-to strategy with data projects is to (1) publishing something about it, (2) submit it to some kind of presentation, and (3) apply for accolades to memorialize it. 

I started doing this because the nature of data work means that there isn't necessarily one organization/sector/venue to target to feel accomplished/growth in our careers. The point is to talk about your work because your labor/expertise for a project isn't always visible/understood to others even within our own organization/field.

(1) Publish something! Write a social media post, a blurb for your organization's website, a newsletter piece, or an article about what the project was, what you did, & how you feel about it. Include photos, doodles, screenshots of spreadsheets, or annotated screenshots of what went wrong. 

(2) Present the project! Get technical about it. Show us your workflow, explain your thoughts, give your peers ideas and insight for their own projects. There are conferences/events to do this in sectors you might not even think your work applies to like history, LIS, DAM, marketing, HR, or healthcare. 

(3) Get recognized! Data work is vast; the possible awards or accolades we can apply for are limitless because there isn't one organization, sector, or venue to target. These are especially valuable for data work because data/websites/apps disappear off the Internet for a variety of reasons yet the accolade will remain as something you can show for the project.
